Tom Willett     tomw@pigstye.net
Unionville, Indiana, USA
June 13, 2004

The Geeklog SpamX plugin was created to fight the problem of comment spam for 
Geeklog systems. If you are unfamiliar with comment spam you might see the
Comment Spam Manifesto at http://kalsey.com/2003/11/comment_spam_manifesto/.
The main mechanism SpamX uses to fight comment spam is to use the blacklist 
created by Jay Allen and Movable type Users - MT-Blacklist.  You can find out
info about this project at http://www.jayallen.org/comment_spam/. Jay has taken
it upon himself not only to write and support the plugin for movable type but
also to maintain the blacklist.  This requires human effort to review all the
submissions and determine which are really spam and which are just noise.  If
you have a few extra bucks drop by Jay's website above and drop a few dollars
in his paypal account to show your appreciation.  

The MT-Blacklist theory is that comment spammers do it to increase their google 
rankings and therefore the link is all important.  The MT-Blacklist therefore
only filters on urls.

The MT-Blacklist is only one part of the Geeklog SpamX plugin however.  The
SpamX plugin has its own personal blacklist that you can add to. You can
use it to filter anything from comments.  One option is to import the Geeklog
censor list and ban all comments which contain one of those words.  This or an
expanded list might be usefull for a website that caters to children.  Then no
comments with offensive language could be posted.

The SpamX plugin was built to be expandable to easily adapt to changes the
comment spammers might make.  There are three types of modules admin, examin
and action.  A new module is contained in a file and can simply be dropped in
and it will be added to the plugin.  The modules with which the plugin ships
are:  
Admin -> View SpamX log, 
	 Update MT-Blacklist, 
	 Edit Personal Blacklist,
	 View/Import Other Personal Blacklists, 
	 Configure Spamx Modules; 
Examine -> MT-Blacklist, 
	   Personal Blacklist; 
Action -> Delete Comment if on Blacklist,
	  Mail Admin if Comment Rejected. (requires 1.3.9)

Other modules can be just dropped into place.  Planned modules include:
Admin->  Easy mass deletion of spam comments.
	 Parsing comments and automatic adding spam links.
	 Comparing MT-Blacklist and personal blacklist to eliminate duplications.
Examine -> Other parsing of comments like making links clickable.
	 Specialized blacklists.  (These are in planning stages).
Action -> Save comment for review.

One feature of the SpamX plugin is the ability to share your blacklist and to
view and import the Blacklists of other SpamX plugin users.  Your participation
in this will help give early warning to other SpamX plugin users.  This
facility will also make it possible to create special blacklists for different
classes of users such as k-12 schools. The sharing of blacklists uses rss feeds 
to distibute the blacklists.  If anyone wants to create a special blacklist I 
will make the server and interface scripts to facilitate this.

TomW